Strenghten a bit and clarify importance of triaging issues (#27262)
mistercrunch/Airflow: ISSUE_TRIAGE_PROCESS.rst

or "converting this issue to discussion because ..." or "closing because it is a duplicate of #xxx", it is
far more welcoming than leaving issues and discussions unanswered. Sometimes issues and discussions are
answered by other users (and this is cool) but if an issue/discussion is not responded to for a few days or
weeks, this gives an impression that the user was ignored and that the Airflow project is unwelcoming.

We strive to provide relatively quick responses to all such issues and discussions. Users should exercise
patience while waiting for those (knowing that people might be busy, on vacations etc.) however they should
not wait weeks until someone looks at their issues.

Issue Triage Team
''''''''''''''''''

While many of the issues can be responded to by other users and committers, the committer team is not
big enough to handle all such requests and sometimes they are busy with implementing important
and complex features that require focusing for extended periods of time on them. Therefore, some people
who are regularly contributing and helping other users and shown their deep interest

> in the project to the triage team. The current list of triage team members can be found in

Reviewer: I feel like we are missing a verb here, not sure I understand the sentence.

```suggestion
Therefore, some people who are regularly contributing and helping other users and shown their deep interest
in the project can be invited to join the triage team.
```

to become a member of the team (on devlist) if you can show that you have done that and when you want to have
more ways to help others.

The triage team members do not have committer privileges but they can
assign, edit, and close issues and pull requests without having capabilities to merge the code. They can
also convert issues into discussions and back. The expectation for the issue triage team is that they
spend a bit of their time on those efforts. Triaging means not only assigning the labels but often responding
to the issues and answering user concerns or if additional input is needed - tagging the committers or other community members who might be able to help provide more complete answers.

Being an active and helpful member of the "Issue Triage Team" is actually one of the paths towards
becoming a committer. By actively helping the users and triaging the issues and responding to them and
involving others (when needed) shows that you are not only willing to help our users and the community,
but are also ready to learn about parts of the projects you are not actively contributing to - all of that

> are super valuable components of being eligible to `become a committer <COMMITTERS.md>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
becoming a committer. By actively helping the users, triaging the issues, responding to them and
involving others (when needed) shows that you are not only willing to help our users and the community,
but are also ready to learn about parts of the projects you are not actively contributing to - all of that
are super valuable components of being eligible to `become a committer <COMMITTERS.md>`_.
```

If you are a member of the triage team and not able to make any commitment, it's best to ask to have yourself
removed from the triage team.

BTW. Every committer is pretty much automatically part of the "Issue Triage Team" - so if you are committer,
feel free to follow the process for every issue you stumble upon.

Actions that can be taken by the issue triager
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

There are several actions an issue triager might take:

* Closing and issue with "invalid" label explaining why it is closed in case the issue is invalid. This

>   should be accompanied by information that we cn always re-open an issue if our understanding was wrong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  should be accompanied by information that we can always re-open an issue if our understanding was wrong
```

  or if the user provides more information.

* Converting an issue to a discussion, if it is not very likely it is an Airflow issue or when it is not
  responsible, or when it is a bigger feature proposal requiring discussion or when it's really users
  troubleshooting or when the issue description is not at all clear. This also involves inviting the user
  to a discussion if more information might change it.

> * If the issue seems important enough that it should likely be looked at before the next release but there

Reviewer: All actions start with a verb, maybe rewording to start with 'Assigning the issue to the milestone....'

Author: very good point :). Consistency above all :)

  is not enough information or doubts on why and what can be fixed, assign the issue to the milestone of
  the next bugfix - then, no matter what the issue will be looked at by the release manager and it might
  trigger additional actions during the release preparation. This is usually followed by one of the next
  actions.

* Actually fixing the issue in a PR if you see it is easy to fix. This is a great way also to learn and
  contribute to parts that you usually are not contributing to, and sometimes it is surprisingly easy.

> * Assign "good first issue" label if an issue is clear but not important to be fixed immediately, This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Assigning "good first issue" label if an issue is clear but not important to be fixed immediately, This
```

To be consistant with other actions (asking, fixing, calling, assigning, converting...)

This is intended to make it as easy as possible to contribute to
the project.

> Another important part of our Issue reporting process are also Github Discussions.

Reviewer 2: - remove "also"
- "GitHub",  also may be add a link to it as this is the first time it is mentioned (https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions)

Author: I actually rewrote that part quite a bit, and added a bit more guidance on what Issues are an explaining that converting issues to discussions is an important part of the triaging.

Issues should represent clear feature requests or bugs which can/should be either implemented or fixed.
Users are encouraged to open Discussions rather than Issues if there are no clear, reproducible

> steps, or when they have troubleshooting problems.

Reviewer 2: Loved the clear distinction.

Responding to issues/discussions (relatively) quickly
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> It is vital to provide rather quick feedback to Issues and Discussions opened by our users, so that they

Reviewer 2: nit: case for "issues" and "discussions" is sometimes capital and sometime lower

Author: Good catch. I reviewed  and left only beegining of sentences and "GitHub Issues". "GitHub Discussion", "Issue Triage Team" capitalized (and quoted)

feel listened to rather than ignored. Even if the response is "we are not going to work on it because ...",

> or "converting this issue to discussion because ..." or "closing because it is a duplicate of #xxx", it is

Reviewer 2: out of curiosity, does Airflow have a concept of "this issue needs more research, and we will add this to our backlog for now"?

Author: Not directly. We do not have anyone looking at the backlog and we will not have likely. We smply leave issues open - if we have not enough information, we ask for it in the issue and that's basically it. Since all issues are open and visible to anyone (and searchable) if other people will see it, they might add extra information that might lead us to further investigations. 

However we have something "like" that. If we think that issue is important but we have no clue we often add it to "next bugfix milestone". Which is an indication that we at least should look at it before the next release and we can decide during release preparation what we should do with it. 

That's cool you mentioned it - this was something done implicitly without actually writing it down. I will add it here.

Reviewer 2: This was helpful explanation. Yea, I read about "next bugfix milestone" in slack conversation, but didn't see it in the GitHub rst. Thanks for adding it.

far more welcoming than leaving issues and discussions unanswered. Sometimes issues and discussions are
answered by other users (and this is cool) but if an issue/discussion is not responded to for a few days or
weeks, this gives an impression that the user reporting it is ignored, which creates an impression of a

> non-welcoming project.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: it gives an impression that the user was ignored and that the Airflow project is unwelcoming.

Author: Right :)

We strive to provide relatively quick responses to all such issues and discussions. Users should exercise
patience while waiting for those (knowing that people might be busy, on vacations etc.) however they should
not wait weeks until someone looks at their issues.

Issue Triage team
''''''''''''''''''

While many of the issues can be responded to by other users and committers, the committer team is not

> big enough to handle all such requests and sometimes they are busy with implementing important huge features

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: with implementing important and complex features...

Author: yep.

that require focusing for extended periods of time on them. Therefore, we are inviting people who are
regularly contributing and helping other users and shown their deep interest in the project to the
triage team. The current list of triage team members is in  `the .asf.yaml <.asf.yaml>`_ file in the

> ``collaborators`` section.

Reviewer 2: After reading this, it is not clear to me if addition to the triage team is voluntary or based on invitations sent out by PMCs (like for becoming a Committer). Can a user who has been actively contributing and responding to users on slack/mailing lists volunteer to be added by herself/himself?

Author: Yeah. Good point. I clarified that this can be both - by invitation and users can ask for it - but I also added point that (and this is very consistent with our committer's, PMC requirements - you have to do something that is "expected" at a given "level" before you are "formally" invited. As everything in ASF - this is based on merit. You need to show that  you are already doing something (i.e. almost committer's or PMC's "things") before you are invited to be committer/PMC - same as triager. You need to comment and help users regularly before  you become a member of triage team. In Airflow (and all other ASF project) we do not give priviledges to people based on "promises" that they will do something but on the base on them "already doing something". 

That's how merit is defined as an important part of the Apache Way: https://www.apache.org/theapacheway/ - "Earned authority" or "merit".  If you are asking to become a member of the triage team, you need to show you have done a lot of that already (pretty much everything except assigning labels/milestones/closing issues can be done by regular users - commenting, mentioning others, assessing validity of the issues can be done by everyone.

Reviewer 2: This was one of the most important pieces for me in this PR. Appreciate the details and clarity here.

Author: Cool!

The triage team members do not have committer privileges but they can
assign, edit, and close issues and pull requests without having capabilities to merge the code. They can
also convert issues into discussions and back. The expectation for the issue triage team is that they
spend a bit of their time on those efforts. Triaging means not only assigning the labels but often responding
to the issues and answering user concerns or if additional input is needed - tagging the committers or other community members who might be able to help provide more complete answers.

Being an active and helpful member of the Issue Triage team is actually one of the paths towards
becoming a committer. By actively helping the users and triaging the issues and responding to them and
involving others (when needed) shows that you are not only willing to help our users and the community,

> but also give a chance to learn about parts of the project you are not actively contributing to - all of that

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: but are also ready to learn about parts of the projects...

are super valuable components of being eligible to `become a committer <COMMITTERS.md>`_.

> If you are a member of the triage team an not able to make any commitment, it's best to ask to have yourself

Reviewer: typo: “**and** not able to”

Author: Right :)

This is intended to make it as easy as possible to contribute to
the project.

Another important part of our Issue reporting process are also Github Discussions.

> Issues should represent clear feature requests which can/should be implemented.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Issues should represent clear feature requests or bugs which can/should be either implemented or fixed.
```

Users are encouraged to open Discussions rather than Issues if there are no clear, reproducible
steps, or when they have troubleshooting problems.

Responding to issues/discussions (relatively) quickly
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

It is vital to provide rather quick feedback to Issues and Discussions opened by our users, so that they
feel listened to rather than ignored. Even if the response is "we are not going to work on it because ...",
or "converting this issue to discussion because ..." or "closing because it is a duplicate of #xxx", it is
far more welcoming than leaving issues and discussions unanswered. Sometimes issues and discussions are

> answered by other users (and this is cool) but if an issue/discussion is not responded to for few days or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
answered by other users (and this is cool) but if an issue/discussion is not responded to for a few days or
```

> weeks, this gives an impression, that the user reporting it is ignored, that creates an impression of
> non-welcoming project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
weeks, this gives an impression that the user reporting it is ignored, which creates an impression of a
non-welcoming project.
```

We strive to provide relatively quick responses to all such issues and discussions. Users should exercise
patience while waiting for those (knowing that people might be busy, on vacations etc.) however they should
not wait weeks until someone looks at their issues.

Issue Triage team
''''''''''''''''''

> While many of the issues can be responded to by other users and committers, the committer team is not
> big enough to handle all such requests and sometimes they are busy with implementing important huge features
> that require focusing for extended periods of time on them, therefore we are inviting people who are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While many of the issues can be responded to by other users and committers, the committer team is not
big enough to handle all such requests and sometimes they are busy with implementing important huge features
that require focusing for extended periods of time on them. Therefore, we are inviting people who are
```

regularly contributing and helping other users and shown their deep interest in the project to the

> triage team. The current list of triage team is in  `the .asf.yaml <.asf.yaml>`_ file in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
triage team. The current list of triage team members is in  `the .asf.yaml <.asf.yaml>`_ file in the
```

``collaborators`` section.

The triage team members do not have committer privileges but they can
assign, edit, and close issues and pull requests without having capabilities to merge the code. They can
also convert issues into discussions and back. The expectation for the issue triage team is that they
spend a bit of their time on those efforts. Triaging means not only assigning the labels but often responding

> to the issues and answering user concerns or if additional input is needed - tagging the committers that
> and other team members who might help to provide more complete answers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to the issues and answering user concerns or if additional input is needed - tagging the committers or other community members who might be able to help provide more complete answers.
```

> Taking active and helpful part of the Issue Triage team is actually one of the paths towards

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Being an active and helpful member of the Issue Triage team is actually one of the paths towards
```

becoming a committer. By actively helping the users and triaging the issues and responding to them and
involving others (when needed) shows that you are not only willing to help our users and the community,
but also give a chance to learn about parts of the project you are not actively contributing to - all of that
are super valuable components of being eligible to `become a committer <COMMITTERS.md>`_.

> If you are a member of the triage team an not able to make any commitment, it's best to ask to get yourself
> removed from the triage team.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are a member of the triage team an not able to make any commitment, it's best to ask to have yourself
removed from the triage team.
```
